feat: :sparkles: post on publishing Template Data Package! (#140)
seedcase-project/community: posts/publish-template-data-package/index.qmd

our improvements and features as we add to it.

## Code scaffolding and configuration management with Template Data Package

We have a dedicated website for [Template Data
Package](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org) that
includes a lot more details about what it is, what features it has, and
how to use it. But I'll briefly go over bits of it here.

We built the Template to mainly help us build and manage Data Packages
for projects that we collaborate on, such as
[ON-LiMiT](https://onlimit.org/) or
[DP-Next](https://dp-next.github.io/). It helped us to get a more
"tangible" view of what a Data Package will look like and what are the
files and folders we need to best organise and develop it.

Templates are a way to
[scaffold](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scaffolding_(programming)) new
projects with a predefined structure and configuration, essentially
providing boilerplate code and files so you can start working more
quickly on what matters most: solving your problem. They also help with
[configuration
management](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Configuration_management) to
track and manage improvements in the configurations and settings we have

> made from hard lessons learned, best practices, and experience so that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
made based on hard lessons learned, best practices, and experience so that
```
Maybe?

the [developer
experience](https://github.blog/enterprise-software/collaboration/developer-experience-what-is-it-and-why-should-you-care/)
is as good and as smooth as possible.

> For that reason, we included many features to help with practises such

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this reason, we included many features to help with practices such
```

as [continuous
integration](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_integration) and
[continuous
delivery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Continuous_delivery). Practices
that ensure the code and data are as high quality as possible and are
standardised and consistent.

As per our [design philosophy](https://design.seedcase-project.org/) of
[building for ourselves
first](https://design.seedcase-project.org/organisation/contribution#we-are-our-first-users),
we designed the Template Data Package to have features and structures

> that work for us and our team. But we've also designed it be flexible

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that work for us and our team. But we've also designed it to be flexible
```

enough to be used by others. At the least, you can use it as a source of
inspiration! :grin:

## Why use it?

We built this because, well, we needed it! There aren't any templates or
tools for creating a new Data Package. And none that set it up in the
way we need when working with our Seedcase Python packages like
[Seedcase Sprout](https://sprout.seedcase-project.org/). So, if you want

> to create a Data Package, that has many development support and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create a Data Package that has many development support and
```

infrastructure files, and all the organisation needed to get working on
making your Data Package, this is the template for you! :tada:

### Example use

We already have a detailed
[guide](https://template-data-package.seedcase-project.org/docs/guide/)

> on how to setup and use it, but I'll show you the basics. How do you use

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on how to set up and use it, but I'll show you the basics. How do you use
```

Package might be done and might look like. From those experiences, we
created the basis for the Template Data Package. After that, it was only
a matter of learning how to use
[copier](https://copier.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)[^1] to create the
template.

[^1]: See our [decision
    post](https://decisions.seedcase-project.org/why-copier) for why we
    chose Copier.

Copier is a very easy to use tool, with some great documentation. It was
so much easier to use than we expected that we were able to publish it
in half the time we planned! We thought it would take two months (that
included time away for all the vacations that the team was taking over
the summer). But it only ended up being a month :tada: It also helped
that we have learned a lot from building Seedcase Sprout, so our
workflow and development process is much more streamlined and efficient
now.

So! The Template Data Package is "formally" published on
[Zenodo](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.16540439), though it is actually
only installable and usable from GitHub. We published it on Zenodo as a
way to get exposure and make it more findable, but also as a way to
"stamp" it as a formal release.

## Next steps

> We were so enthusiastic about making the Template and how it easy it was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We were so enthusiastic about making the Template and how easy it was
```
